---
title: ProxMox
date: 2022-06-05 12:50:00 
categories: [Operating Systems]
tags: [servers]
---
ProxMox is a platform to host virtual machines and containers, in this configuration there are two machines each with an SSD and NVME drives. The hardware being used for both are HP mini format machines neither of which supports booting from the NVME so ProxMox has to be installed on the SSD.

# Installing ProxMox
Download the latest proxmox from [ProxMOx Downloads](https://www.proxmox.com/en/downloads) and burn to a memory stick. Boot to the memory stick and install the operating system.

blah

## Post Installation
The following tweaks and other can be found on the [Proxmox Helper Scripts](https://tteck.github.io/Proxmox/) web page. To execute select the proxmox node and stat a shell, then copy and execute the following commands.

Replace the enterprise repositories with the no-subscription repositority, add the correct sources disable the subscription nag. Note that some of these activities can be achieved in the ProxMox UI.
```
bash -c "$(wget -qLO - https://github.com/tteck/Proxmox/raw/main/misc/post-install-v3.sh)"
```
Set a Dark Mode Theme - use `uninstall` to remove
```
bash <(curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Weilbyte/PVEDiscordDark/master/PVEDiscordDark.sh ) install
```
## Install Updates
Ensure the repositories have been update as above then select the relevant node and select the Updates menu, then click on the `Refresh` button then when complete select the `Upgrade` option

# Create/Join Cluster
Creating and/or joining a cluster can only be done before any virtual machines or containers are created.
Create the cluster on the first node and then login into the other node and join the cluster.

## Creating the Cluster
Login to a node and select the Datacenter then choose `Cluster` menu and click on `Create Cluster`

## Joining a Cluster
Login to a node and select the Datacenter then choose `Cluster` menu and click on `Join Cluster`

# Adding Storage

## Local (NVME) Storage
```
Partition an LVM (type 8e) partition using fdisk - e.g. /dev/sdb3
Prepare partition - pvcreate /dev/sdb3
Add partition to the pve group - vgextend pve /dev/sdb3
Extend the LVM-Thin pool - lvextend -L+10G pve/datac`
```
## Remote (NAS) Storage
```
select datacentre->storage->add->NFS
ID Choose a name
Server = IP Addrees of NAS
Export = Select NAS folder to mount
Content = Select storage types e.g. Disk Image,Backup
```
# Setting to use DHCP
```
vi /etc/network/interfaces
change static to dhcp and comment out the address and gateway lines and reboot
Check https://tteck.github.io/Proxmox/ for some additional stuff
```